# DSC180B-CapstoneFinalProject

Evaluating gender bias within images generated by DallE-2.

Requirements:

This project makes use of OPENAI and requires a 'config.py' file
with the below line. 

OPENAI_API_KEY = "YOUR_API_KEY_HERE"

If running the test target with a valid OpenAI key, it will generate ten images
(256x256) on that account to be charged (or with the user's remaining free
credits if any).

## Instructions and Project Guide

### run.py

Call `python run.py test` to run the project using test data. 

To run the project on the data used for the actual report, call `python run.py` however this will take a bit of time.

The run.py is setup to work with seperated targets that can be called by using the format `python run.py target1 target2 ...`:

- `power` Performs analysis on BLS like data to give information on the sample size necessary at 1% statistical power for our statistical testing.
- `images` Generates images based on the occupations specified in the main or test `params.json` files. Requires a `config.py` file to be setup as specified.
- `analysis` Performs the statstical tests for the report while generating informative visualizations. Requires labeled image data in the format found under `test/raw/labeled_results.csv`. 

## notebooks/

Included for reference, these notebooks were used in the hand-labeling 
process. 

## src/ 

Contains all source code in generating images and selecting occupations
within a specified range (of a 50/50 gender split). Currently, only tester
images can be generated. 